---
title: "Transcript: This Nearly Destroyed My Reputation"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: This Nearly Destroyed My Reputation

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCYdHAi8g3o)

---

There is no real scientific basis for Johnson's lifestyle. It actually may be actively bad for his health. And it sounds absolutely miserable. [Music] Brian Johnson, another tech millionaire with lots to say but nothing to show for it. Brian never claims that the blueprint diet is the one true diet. In fact, he's repeatedly stuck on this egocentric desire to extend his own life as long increasingly ludicrous big swings that rarely turn out to be anything positive. It's the hitand-run accusation economy. I don't blame them. Don't die is a very complicated topic. So, any idea like this is going to be misunderstood and I'll probably be misunderstood for all of time. What brings you to town? What brings you here? We have a Don't die summit tomorrow. Yeah. Our third. This will be sold out. 1,400 people. And what goes into that? What's a day at the Don't Die Summit? We have a longevity park where you try a bunch of therapies. Then we teach people for 4 hours on how to measure biomarkers and achieve better health. We want it to be the best time anyone's ever invested on how to actually improve health measurably. Mental health, physical health, all the above. You're Brian Johnson, right? Yeah. Right on, man. Good work. Thank you, man. New York is home to my rebirth. The most distinct thing was the first rave I had in Brooklyn, these warehouse parties where the dance party begins at midnight. That was when I discovered my love of dancing. Growing up, we never even danced. And so, yeah, probably the most exciting moment of my life. Like, just like a transported into a new reality. Purple cabbage, the cilantro. Let's do that sweet potato. Yeah. My previous version of life was just in shambles. Everything kind of fell apart. Came to New York and experience things brand new in life. And so, yeah, New York has a soft place in my heart. It's really great to be back here. [Music] Oh my god. What? It there's It's actually insane how non-factual things are. Exactly. The New York Times just ran a negative piece about Brian. People then saw that as an authority source. So even if the details weren't believable or interesting or dramatic, all of a sudden people started popping up. independent people started seeing that opportunity and saying perfect like this is my time to talk about Brian Johnson cuz I hate him for XY reason. Nobody cares, man. We're not as rich as you to live forever. People want to be able to see a doctor. People want to survive when they get the diagnosis. People want to get access to meds and not go bay. Other people take the baton and start running with the insults. And so we've just had this colossal amount of hate, like very pointed hate. And it's not justifiable. It is not ethical. It is not moral. And so it is just such a unreputable practice. That's crazy. What that out of like speaking to 30 people and literally spending a year of the New York Times money on this that that's what they can come up with. Yeah. He is incentivized to exaggerate the benefits. He is incentivized to say, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, the basics, but also this is the 20% of the work that's giving you 80% of the benefits." What the latest scammer, it's Brian Johnson. Oh, I hope he gets hit by a bus or something. I'm like, who? No, that's horrible. Yeah. So, I did Blueprint for a couple years and no one paid attention. And then there was a tweet thread that got, I think, like 50 million views. And I woke up one morning, it was just like this onslaught, a tsunami of vitriol. Blueprint was less interesting to them and they were more interested in how I was responding to people. It's not about health, guys. It's about attention. He turned himself into a brand and product is his obsession. I think the media views themselves as holy warriors to some extent of of truth. They can defame you in ways you can't recover from. As a consumer kind of don't trust anything he says, right? Brian's sleep score is totally fake. Who would honestly believe he had 8 months of perfect sleep? You can't say anything in response. You can't defend yourself. You can't dispute it. You can't dig out, right? like you you can't that's why I feel so for Lauren and the gubrius is it just creates paralysis like why do anything [Music] you know when I was building Brainree I was so depressed and so beaten down that I thought if I don't make it on This one I'm smoked. [Music] You know, starting something going from zero to one is just like nothing else. It is so hard. The problem is I never quit. Like ultimately I know I would get back up. Like I know that's the case and we have to stand up a few more zero to ones. The future is not going to work unless we stand up zero to ones. [Music] Hey guys, how you doing? Good to see you. Good to see you. How you guys doing? I genuinely care about showing up for people and about being sincere and trusted to show up. We're trying to go for precision and these instructions matter a lot. 2 in above the ground and then full extension. 67 182. Good job. 532. 42. Good job. What's your What's your chronological age? The entirety of my online interactions is yes. And if somebody is going to insult me, I will accept the insult and then yes and them. Is it healthy to never get sunlight and to be that pasty looking? Yes. Actually, yes. Skin cancer is a big don't get it. It's really been a great formula because it diffuses the hater. If you give them a no butt, then they've got something to work with. If you asand them, it just like wipes it. [Music] Brian looks like the kind of guy who never has fun, never gets out, and and will never realize that life exists beyond his living room. [Music] Health is a universal desire. It transcends borders. It trans ethnicities. It transcends ideologies. It is the one thing we all share in common. And so, if I can help my fellow humans be healthy in any part of the world, I'm eagerly willing to do so. For 75 days, I ate the exact same diet is Brian Johnson. The best part about this is how good you feel all the time. For me, mental clarity and ability to focus went way up. My body weight dropped from 192 to 164 lb. This is 5 lbs of body fats. And according to Dexa, I lost 60% of this total mass in one week. If he's going to be a guinea pig, put himself through hell, and then give us some tips so we don't have to. And then we're all just reminded like, "Oh yeah, just sleep 8 hours." I'm like, I'm kind of here for it cuz I don't want to live like that, but he can live like that and just tell us what actually works. We're all after the same thing. And what I'm interested in is the overlap in the ven diagrams. So, I I'm glad that Brian came up because I think he represents one spoke on the wheel and it's and it's an important one. In the in his absence, I think the field will progress less quickly. Blueprint is not about the exact diet. It's not about the exact exercise protocol. It's not about red light therapy or a bedtime routine or about skinincare. At its core, Project Blueprint is about using measurement and data to back up health choices. What's up, man? How you doing? Good to see you. How's it going? Yeah, I'm good. I'm a big fan. Man, I keep your videos on my YouTube. Is it working? Are you going to bed on time? Uh, hopefully soon. I don't know what to make of all this, right? Like, but it does intuitively it feels to me that my role in this tapestry of existence is to try to sherp the human race in a positive way to this new thing which sits on the other side of all of our current ideas about what reality is.
