---
title: "Transcript: Most Food Is Toxic... So I Fixed It"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Most Food Is Toxic... So I Fixed It

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=setwpDYtHk0)

---

Over the last [music] 40 years, the United States has been exposed to something that our biology was never intended to handle. Energy dense, highly palatable, rapidly absorbable, ultrarocessed foods. These [music] products can really trigger all the core signs of addiction. Loss of control, those intense cravings, [music] that continued use even though you know it may be killing or harming you. I discovered the food system is toxic and most people feel trapped. I think they know it's not healthy for them, but it's just beyond the person's capacity to stop themselves. There's so much information now of how to get you addicted down to the molecule, down to like the moment of what you're looking at on your phone. It really is a war. People aren't consuming food. They are using it. These products are so bad that their own CEOs can't eat them. Here we go. first. Holy cow, that is so good. Who are we protecting when they are protected from I'm not going to cascade the people that work in the food and beverage industry? What they're not? No. What I want that is your job. If we can't trust that these companies can keep us healthy, we need to build one that does. And so I realized the only choice I had was to do it myself. What foods here we come going to shop up and down the aisles. When you walk into a grocery store, they are predator and you are prey. We're trying to find a healthy cookie. This is not it. Yeah. Unbleached enriched sweets. The companies knowingly use science to create the most addictive products possible. the perfect combination of fats, sugar, and salt to appeal to your worst instincts. It's kind of like walking into a casino where it's been engineered for you to buy by buy. Often times, many of these forces you're not even aware of, the colors you see and the design on the packaging, the words they use. It's a challenging thing consciously and unconsciously. You either solve for food in your house or you don't. And if you have that one gaping hole of one meal a day, there's in a predicament like you have to, it's such a gigantic problem to solve [music] for a mill. Blueprint is designed to solve a very practical problem I had, which is I discovered the food system is toxic. No company can be trusted because they don't test and/or they say things that are [music] not true. And after going through this experience, I've realized the only choice I had was to do it myself. Each of these brands have knocked off one or a small number of things, [music] but no one's gone after the entirety of your diet. What we did was for Brian, it was not the intention to say that other people should or need to do this for themselves. What we tried to say was like what happens [music] when and he was willing to be rigorous with his own body and with his own lifestyle and schedule to test that and see what happens. What is your daily dietary strategy? [music] Where do you stand with your diet? I'm not carnivore. I'm not vegan. I'm not vegetarian. [music] I'm not paleo. I'm not keto. I don't care. I just want to look at the evidence and say, you take a given thing, you put it in the body. [music] What happens? We looked at the scientific evidence behind the best performing foods according to all the science that's been done [music] around nutrition. And we just said, okay, let's take the top performer and then number two, number three, and we just said, what are those foods? We had a master list. How can we now turn these ingredients into edible things, sweet things here, savory things here, and that's how you get nutty pudding and super veggie. Super veggies. Take two. AB Mark. [music] Both super veggie and nutty pudding are designed to have a combination of carbohydrates, fats, protein, dietary fiber, and a bunch of other nutrients that basically solve for the majority of a person's needs. [music] So when I first started here, we started with only nutty pudding and super veggies. [music] And it's probably one of the most costefficient ways of eating because they're single whole ingredients that you're primarily [music] using. For the super veggies, we start with a black lentil [music] base. I mix it in with some chopped garlic and ginger, some apple cider vinegar, cumin, [music] shiakei mushrooms, broccoli, and cauliflower. That's the base of his super veggies. Take six AB Mark. As far as his nutty [music] pudding goes, we use macadamia nut milk or any type of nutmilk. Macadamia nuts, hemp [music] seeds, flax seeds, walnuts. There's nothing about this. [gasps] This is the easiest, most uncomplicated [music] way of eating. [music] Blue Fresh is the meal delivery service. It comes straight to your door and it's made by local restaurants in the area and you get to choose the fresh food that you're able to get based upon your preferences for your diet. We did this because people would get half their calories from our extravirgin olive oil, proteins, collagen peptides, but then the other half their calories they had to go out in the world to the supermarket. And then in doing that, you're exposed to all the same problems. So, you're trying to find the highest purity, potency, and quality of the ingredient, and also be affordable. When we were getting this dish put together, they specifically want us to use the best almond milk that was possible in the market. As far as the protein powder, which is the cleanest out available, make everything from scratch, and it was a hit. We're also always looking into things we can improve, like for example, packaging. We did a deep dive to try to find the perfect packaging that had no toxins whatsoever. We couldn't find it. Like there's nobody who manufactures the perfect product. But I guess the important thing is we try very hard. We've gone to the ends of the earth to look at every possible option. And what you see is I think the best in world. These are actually eco-friendly fiber paper trays specifically for blueprint. [music] Yeah, but you're not going to make any money doing this. Uh that's true that food is a very low margin business. I wouldn't do this if uh it was for the money. As an entrepreneur, there's a hundred other businesses I would build if I was interested in money alone. It's much easier to make money off of addictions, easy things that keep people hooked like candy bars. But what does it mean to try to prioritize someone's well-being above [music] making money? And so that's the infrastructure we're trying to build. And it's this like crazy idea that we may or may not be able to do. And it's intensely complicated and it's probably going to take us a lot of time and a lot of effort and we may barely survive, but that's what we're trying to do. I'm now on campus with my friends and I'm having burgers and fries. And here I am with my nutty pudding. Very healthy. Cheers. I've decided to cook the super. We got the nutty pudding. All right. Family's in town. I made him try the uh nutty pudding here. What' you think? [music] Delicious. What's really impressive and what I'm proud about is that we've been alive for 2 years. And we have done a more comprehensive job of solving for the individual for a greater proportion [music] of a person's daily killer can take than any company in the entire world. And we've tried our very best to bring the best of science and make it affordable for everybody. I'm a mom and a school counselor and I wanted to make tweaks to be better about my health and be a better like steward over my own body. I think my family thinks I'm crazy [gasps] and maybe I am a little crazy but like I don't know I just had to try it and I just had to give it a shot. It is an endeavor that is fueled by passion and I think that I can imagine easily blueprint becoming the infrastructure for health that in 100 years we'll look back and say how do we ever live without that knowledge? [music] If it's the case that people in the 25th century do point back and say, "We like those guys. They were a beacon of hope and a bright light in a dim world. We could be those people." [music] It's so good. Like a longevity ice cream store that we had the insight and courage to do something well beyond our time and to see it. love. My son helping me mix the nutty pudding because ultimately [music] the thing we care about the most is to be alive. I want to have a very long life so I can take care of my donkeys into old age. Yes, these two don. Yes, I need to keep my body fit and I I want to enjoy my my life and not let my body become a prison. First time I prioritized my health [music] and sleep above work and I did have two consecutive days of 100% sleep score. Hey, what's up guys? [laughter] I'm going to continue to continue to [music] take our after eating the nutty pudding and taking the vitamins. I wasn't as hungry throughout the day. Today I'm feeling pretty good and hopefully in a week's time [music] I will be able to report progress and success. But I also have to remember that as long as I don't give up, I am succeeding.
