---
title: "Transcript: I Tried To Make My Face Younger"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: I Tried To Make My Face Younger

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrXrF82Jv_0)

---

Chapter 1: Intro This is me one year ago. This is me four months ago and here I am today. What happened? You know, I used to get a lot of hate and people were suggesting, you know, I was one step away from death. That caused a lot of reflection and then I was like off. Okay. So, how did we get here? If you remember when I started this project, we were trying to evaluate Chapter 2: What happened to my face? how close we are to being able to stop death. And the way we did that is we looked at all the scientific evidence on what you could do to slow down and reverse aging damage. And one of these therapies is known as caloric restriction, which means if a person like me consumes 2,500 calories a day to maintain the same weight, you'd reduce that. And so my caloric intake was 1,950 calories, substantially less. This caused me to lose a lot of fat including in my face. So people started comparing me to Tilda Swinton. Now this was about two years into the project and we were pretty ecstatic. The biomarkers we had achieved in me were pretty stunning. Remember I was 43 years old when I started. I had led a life like poor health habits as a kid. Uh 20 years of running myself into the ground as an entrepreneur, 10 years of chronic depression. I was in a really bad state of health and in just two years time we turned it all around. My biomarkers were fantastic. We were excited. But when I went out in public, people were like, "Wait, is this guy going to die?" So there was a big disconnect between the success we were feeling as a team and the perception. It turns out that facial fat is really important to how someone gauges someone else's youthfulness. The problem was, no matter how good my Chapter 3: Project Baby Face biomarkers were, they would look at my face and say, "That guy's old." So, in response, we said, "We're going to do project baby face." We know that in our youth, we have a lot of facial fat, and over time, it lessens. In fact, in your 20s, you start losing 1% of your collagen every year. So, by the time you're 80 years old, you've lost 75% of what you had in your early 20s. We wondered, could I rejuvenate my face so I had much more volume? It's endless fun. I love every second of it. Now, that is a hard problem. You probably are aware that people use things like fillers to compensate for the loss of volume. It's why a face can look plump and round, but it's just filler. It's just masking the problem. We wanted to figure out if we could use legitimate rejuvenation technologies to restore volume in my face. There are five things I did to restore volume in Chapter 4: 1. Collagen stimulation my face. The first thing I did is sculptra which is a bio stimulator. It's injected into certain regions of the face. For example, the temples right around the mouth through here. It's designed to allow your body to naturally produce collagen. So instead of putting filler in the face, which just expands in volume, you're getting actual collagen production. My protocol has been doing two vials every six months. I think the company recommends one per year. So I've exceeded what they're recommending. Also, I was compensating from a place of pretty serious deficit. Not starting as a maintenance mode of one vial per year at say age 28. And going through time, I didn't do any until I was age 46. And I lost a lot of weight. So I've been trying to play a little catch-up, but Sculpture is first. Chapter 5: 2. Donor fat transfer Next is I tried Reuva, which is fat transfer. Now, ideally, you want to use your own fat. The problem was I didn't have enough fat on my body to do a transfer, and the doctor was concerned that if we tried to extract any fat I had, I would leave an indentation on my body. And so, I used a donor's fat. When I did this, I had an extreme allergic reaction. In fact, the first day I did it, I met up with a reporter to a story for Bloomberg, and on my way home, I blew up. like I couldn't even see out of my eyes. I called him. I said, "Just a heads up. I'm going to show up. It's me. You may not recognize it, but don't be scared." Because of the allergic reaction, we discontinued it. Now, sadly, it was a promising technology. Uh, we were excited about it and we thought it might be a really good path to revolize, but because I reacted so profoundly, we just couldn't continue it. So, that stopped after one therapy. Chapter 6: 3. Increased calories Next is we decided to increase my daily caloric intake going from 1,950 to 2,250. And we were probing, can we increase my calories while also maintaining the same biomarkers and also putting on more fat. And it worked. I gained 15 lbs, just under 7 kg, and that helped revolmize my face. I'll also note that uh my life substantially improved with a few more calories. At 1950, you're in a pretty serious deficit. You're hungry all the time. It's kind of painful. But I signed up for this and I was willing to do anything in order to achieve the objective. Uh 1950, it turns out it was not necessary as far as we can tell to achieve the same level of biomarkers. So, this is a good example of the experiment we're doing where if caloric restriction is a promising idea and it's still emergent, then we're trying this out and we're measuring a bunch of biomarkers. If it doesn't need to be 20%, then we can move to 10. If it doesn't need to be 10, we can move to zero. It's still very early in the days of anti-aging. And so these kinds of experiments I think are at least interesting as a data point on how we think about the therapies and what impact they can have on our lifespans and health spans. Next is I lessened my intake of lutein which is a carotenoid Chapter 7: 4. Less lutein from 20 millig to 15. And so I did that because it was making my skin yellow. And I think this is why so many people were confused. They saw me I looked gaunt. I was yellow and they're trying to make sense. Is this really what a healthy person looks like? And so a lot of people were thinking I had liver failure that I didn't know about, but it was simply because I had too much carotenoids in my diet and of course that I was on too much caloric restriction. Finally, I did underey PRF Chapter 8: 5. Under-eye plasma injections and that is when you do a blood draw and you separate the red blood cells from the plasma and then you put the plasma back in the body. And this is what I did for my sprained ankle. It's what you can do for hair growth, which I don't do anymore. you can also do for under eye. And so over time, you lose volume under your eye. And there's only really two ways to revolmize. One is with filler. The other is this under eye PRF. The problem with filler is it can migrate and become a nightmare. So I would strongly recommend you do not do filler under eye. It can be very complicated. Under eye PRF is helpful because it helps revolmize the loss volume. Also, it only lasts for like 3 to 6 months. So, it needs to be something you repeat on a continued basis, but does in fact work and revolize what you see disappear over time with age. And I do under eye PRF three times per year. Right now, the past few years has been wild. When I started Blueprint, I did not expect it Chapter 9: Is this really important? to be a global phenomena. I did not expect to be scrutinized by everyone in the world. I did not expect to be compared to the most aesthetically pleasing, beautiful people in the world. People who have been on top of their aesthetic game their entire life. Growing up in a small community, no one really cared about aesthetics. You're just expected as you age to get fat, go bald. So, I didn't apply face cream, for example, ever in my entire life until I was in my early 40s. I never played the aesthetics game. and it only of course became relevant when I started this endeavor and aesthetics became a meaningful part. It's been a complicated one because I've been trying to of course demonstrate something that's never been done before and so it's hard of course for people to understand context. I do think we are at this meaningful moment in time where we are evolving as a species into something else and I'm trying to indicate like this is a promising path for us to pursue and so sometimes I do feel uh saddened that the project is by itself evaluated solely on face fat or some other aesthetic component and not upon these you know comprehensive biomarkers we have. But you know what? This movement needs to succeed. And to do that, there are some criteria, including volume in a face that need to be met. I understand. I mean, the objective was, can I be biologically similar to my 18-year-old in every way, shape, or form? Now, that sounds inconceivable today, but with enough time, is it? That is a question I think worth asking. As we head into the future, many of our Chapter 10: What next? preconceived notions may be challenged by things that come to pass. And when they do, I think it's going to be best for all of us to say, you know what, I have an idea about reality, but I'm wide open to thinking differently. And I think aging and health and wellness is going to be one of those things. So, it's a reminder to me to always check assumptions, check my beliefs, because something may be hiding that may really be in my best interest if I could just see it. Be well. If you want to see how my body has changed throughout my life, check out this video here. Chapter 11: How my body changed over 46 years
