---
title: "Transcript: A typical Blueprint morning / Nov 2021"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: A typical Blueprint morning / Nov 2021

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_3p81GmHEg)

---

Chapter 1: Upon waking Morning It's a good night's sleep Went to bed at about 8:30 pm It's 5:30 am right now and let's get going 163.9 pounds, down 0.7 pounds. 147 of muscle. 7 pounds of bone. 22.2 BMI. 6% body fat. 60.7 water weight. All right. Every day weighing myself is the very first thing I do. And then I have all my systems ready to go. My latest blood draw showed low ferritin levels and so every morning I take 75 mg of iron plus 250 mg of vitamin C because it increases absorption. I drink just a little water I charge my device so that I don't have to think about it ever again I try to do things so that I don't have to think about making any action now let's start the meditation and some light therapy This is something new I've been trying We've been trying for the past two weeks this light therapy. I meditate and then as I meditate I do some light therapy then I finish with HRV training, with this polar strap. All right that's complete, let's see what the results are. They're surprisingly accurate. I have a 10 out of 10 readiness score today. It measures my HRV using frequency-domain and time-domain analysis. It is surprisingly accurate. When I feel stressed or had a bad night, typically, it comes up. If my sympathetic nervous system is much more active. Today it's 10 out of 10. 66 HRV, 56 heart rate. I'm gonna have a good day today. Chapter 2: Pre-workout Concoction All right. Prior to working out I'm going to make a little concoction. First, a little bit of water. I'll drink a total of about 48 ounces today. This is two and a half grams of creatine. Eight drops of manganese. 125 micrograms of liquid iodine, because today's Saturday, it’s 250 micrograms on even days. I’m not awake yet. 20 grams of peptides collagen. Two tablespoons of spermidine. It oxidizes so it needs to be in an airtight container. 500 milligrams of cacao for the flavonols. It increases nitric oxide for the workout (blood flow to the heart and brain). and then a teaspoon of cinnamon You look at this... you may wonder if it's disgusting. It's not. It's delicious. Maybe I'm trained to think so, but, I love this drink. I will do a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil. That would be one of three. So 50 ml of olive oil each day. That's the first one. Get the pills. They are all nicely labelled. UW = upon waking. L = lunch. B = bedtime. All in about 25 pills. I just take them in small handfuls. Look at that, still half to go. What could be a better pre-workout than olive oil, spermidine, peptides, cinnamon, creatine... ...cacao for the flavanols and 25 pills. When you're doing caloric restriction, at least for me, every morsel matters. I've found myself licking my plate. Everything. At just over 2100 calories a day, while working out as much as I do, you really appreciate every single crumb. So that's about as good as I can do. Two pieces of gum. To induce saliva. (I will have three). It has xylitol in it, which prevents tooth decay. It is part of my oral regimen. I'll spit it out in about 60 seconds. and then we're ready to go to the gym. Chapter 3: Workout Now that we're warmed up. Let's see what Jefferson today has Tib Bar, calf raises, ankle rotations, straight calf leg raises, standing leg lifts, butterflies and QL’s. All right. He's got it all labelled out: A1, A2, B, C, D, E1, E2, F. I didn't realize the sequence of exercises would be so important. But ever since I started doing it, I've realized that my body got momentum, the muscles. The future additions and sequences that come thereafter became better. I'll start with the Tib. A lot of what he'd have me do are things that I've never done in my entire life. I never really knew building tibialis muscles is an important thing My favorite part of the day is my morning. I spend an hour to two hours, depending on the day, and I get to think about everything and think about nothing. It's quiet. To play some wonderful music. I just kind of lose myself. Bicep curls, bench press. But [Jefferson] has entirely transformed my workout Now we focus heavily on knees and hips and ankles you see these stretches. It is a entirely different world than what I've done my entire life. It's quite shocking. It's by far the best workout regimen I've ever had, my body's never felt better or more capable. It makes me wonder how could have done the wrong things my entire life. It's kind of like my life until this point. I think I did almost all the wrong things for quite some time. With diet, sleep and exercise. Makes me wonder how many of the wrong things I'm doing now. It's probably a lot. I've lost count. I guess I know via the pain... it's burning like number eighteen. Which means I've got seven left. It kind of feels like I can't do seven, so that feels about right. It'll take me to my edge of pain tolerance. (Just completed 15 min of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT)) I have been working on my max heart rate. No one really knows how to improve it. But somehow my team and I have improved mine by 8% the past few months. We don't really know why. We've done several things. But we just can't find examples of this anywhere in the world. Because my heart rate initially aged me at something like 52. Somewhere around there. And now I’ve brought mine down to [age] 36 There's this specific regimen to generate max heart rate. I did that and got 183 And my previous high was 169. Which was what I couldn't exceed for about 18 months. Alright. Boom, Dad. It's the best working out with him [Jefferson]. I work out twice as hard. The key to blueprint really is to try to eliminate my conscious mind from decision making. From getting up in the morning, it's why I have my pills laid out, the chargers there, everything sits on my bed stand. Once I wake up, open my eyes, I just start the first movement. Do the very first thing. And then, all the way through 9:30 in the morning, until my morning routine ends. It's all autopilot. I don't have to think about anything. It's never a question of 'should I work out' or 'do I feel well enough to work out'. 'Should I do this rep or not this rep'. It's decided for me, it's done. Eliminating my choice. has been the best thing. As my dad said 'removing me from myself has been the best thing I've ever done'. I put him on a blueprint lite version. He too is experiencing the same exuberance and exhilaration of being free from the mind. It is brutal, you know. How difficult is it to wake up, to maybe feel slightly off, and for the mind to say 'You know, should we do this today? Should we work out?' It's like 'nah, you're good. You worked out really well and really hard this week'. 'You need to get extra rest, I'm sure the body will appreciate it'. There's an endless number of excuses that pop up and so it's very very hard to battle that. It's wonderful to just take away the choice. Now every single day for... Every single day until 9 30 in the morning... same. I don't think I've deviated from it once in the past... ever since I've been going on this strong for the last six months or so. No exceptions. Make sure the hands are clean we'll put the my phone and AirPods in the UV disinfectant box every morning my team and I make recipes and we try to create the perfect diet. so I consume 2150 calories a day and we try to make every single calorie perfectly suited for my body we don't waste a single thing and so this represents all of our scientific work all evidence-based medicine we try to have zero guesswork it's all based upon hundreds of measurements from my body that generate the data and we look at that through evidence-based medicine then we then formulate these recipes so I'll show you what it is. it's important, as I mentioned before, that my conscious mind is never consulted about what it wants to eat. My body is. So these measurements ask my liver and my heart and my DNA methylation what they need to thrive as biological processes and organs in my body and it generates data it says 'I'm happy in this way' and 'I'm sad in these ways' and then we try to make all these organs and biological processes happy with the food. and so this is what I'm given today. so you saw in the morning I will eat for example I'll have the addition of olive oil, collagen peptides, i'll add some pea protein to the nutty pudding which I'll show you in a minute but otherwise, this is all I can eat all day long it's not even a guess whether I'm going to have something else It's just out of the question So again I savor every single bite. So let's get the super veggie This is super veggie. I eat around 50 pounds a month of vegetables. As you can see, the volume is pretty substantial I think most people are shocked by this being one meal. But it's broccoli, cauliflower, ginger, garlic, mushrooms, hemp seeds, 300 grams of black lentils. I put on a little simmer because it will take me about 20 minutes to shower and get all my skincare done and then by the time I come down it'll be warm and then we'll go sit down and it will be peace and joy as we eat super veggie and think about the day and particularly the most important things that I want to accomplish and think about. I really don't like listening to podcasts or news or anything because in doing that I really absorb that energy and then I become the energy and so whatever it is I really want to be in my own mind and focus on the things and then after this point in the morning that I can open up, and, I gues expose myself to different energy sources in the morning I keep it very stable It probably makes sense to get some time for this stuff to dry. Chapter 4: Skincare Protocol I just have to move pretty fast because there's a lot going on every day. You see the number of things I do every day, it's a lot, so you have to move pretty fast. And then, we created a custom compounded skin formulation we're trying to make the perfect skin cream with all the evidence-based interventions and this version, it is like version 3, it still makes my skin orange. So I stopped using it on my face and on my arms I just use it on my legs now just to finish it up. We're doing a new formulation. I'll do that in a second. We try to custom build everything from the skincare to the hair formulations to... all of it. We'll use some products here and there where it exceeds our ability to do it, but otherwise, we're just in the research and papers looking at everything. And, again, measuring it. We just found a biopsy method that we can biopsy my skin, on my face. It is this technique we found without creating scarring. So we can measure the effect on my skin age. We do quantification every couple of weeks according to certain standards. This lesson of spraying conditioner to detangle my hair as it was getting all knotty from all the stuff I put in it at night for hair growth. We use this gel to try to decrease skin autofluorescence. As a kid I had a lot of skin debauchery. I was in the sun all the time and I don't think I ever applied sunscreen. And so now with a bunch of light treatments and skincare we're trying to reverse all this damage that I did throughout my life. Now I put this on first. And we have a few machines in the clinic in the next room where we do regular measurements for skin autofluorescence. So we can quantify. Anything we do, we have the system to measure the efficacy of it. If we can't measure it, we typically don't do it. There may be a few minor exceptions where the interventions are pretty low risk, otherwise, everything's measured. So that first, and then vitamin c hyaluronic acid, three drops. and peptide and then we'll do some of this autofluorescence as well then I'll be inside all day So I just need to put sunscreen on. Just a minor amount. I have two different sunscreens. One that's more heavy-duty for UVA and UVB and then another one that's kind of lightweight. The heavy-duty one kind of does white casting on my face a little bit. So all right. Oh and then I have these nice notes from my assistant. I had this wonderful assistant for three years. She took a job with one of my companies now but she is the sweetest thing in the world. She left all these on her last day. She left all these nice notes for me. I'm going to keep them up. She's such a sweetheart. Chapter 5: Breakfast Again, it's like where other people may leave things remaining, food remaining, in the dish... I don't. It's such a slippery slope that if you allow one exception, for any reason, it just kind of all falls apart We will do the next tablespoon of olive oil. This is one of my favorite dishes. Curry pumpkin soup. If I remember correctly it's 300 grams of pumpkin 400 grams of sweet potato some other stuff. But it's delicious. And then this is nutty pudding. This is for dinner. So I'll have this probably around somewhere between two and four p.m. [Adding 29 grams of Pea Protein] I'll put these in the fridge. Half a brazil nut, for the selenium. That's 15 calories. And then previously I'd drink wine every day. I did three ounces but stained my teeth so I'm now going to try to get the essential component in a supplement that is going to be released in a couple weeks and then with with the super veggie, I'll do 500 milligrams of cacao. Delicious. A teaspoon of cinnamon and then a little bit of Trehalose and this is like... this is a treat. The light therapy is for joint rejuvenation: tendons, ligaments. And then this light I do for about 15 minutes a day. 10,000 LUX for mood support and then also circadian rhythm normalization You know I guess as a kid I would have had a bowl, like this, of 'life' or 'cocoa pebbles' or 'cap'n crunch' or you know any one of those. and with skim milk, which I don't know what it has per cup, maybe 12 grams of sugar. Wild to me that I grew up eating that. And you know now my breakfast is this: a few pounds of vegetables with olive oil. My kids have excitedly you know they've adopted this. My 16-year-old takes his super veggie to school and his friends all give him a hard time. they're like 'brah if this thing drops to the floor it's going to burn a hole in the ground' and he just rolls with it but he eats it everyday I'm glad he does that the deeper you go in a given thing the closer you get to I don't want to call it the truth because I don't know if there is a truth but if the statement is that 'chocolate is good for you', that's level one. Level two is that its 'dark chocolate is good for you' and then level three is 'a certain kind of dark chocolate that doesn't have heavy metals in it' so every time you go down a layer you find an increased level of precision. so instead of just like 'oh chocolate's good for you' and so 'a snickers bar must be in part good for you' I've learned to never accept the first statement about a given thing. There's always a few levels to dig. and even then you're not certain you've landed it's just you're probably a better spot before you started. all finished. So I guess for breakfast I have: super veggie, a drink and photons that give life. We are living in the 21st century, what should we really be thinking about? my mind continually goes to what will those who are intelligent that exist in the year 2500 whatever that form of intelligence is when they look back what mattered in the 21st century and of course it would be obvious to them at that time like it is when we look back in the 1600s 1700s or 1800s and that's the kind of clarity I try to have every day. It's very hard. Because you kind of like go through the gauntlet of your mind. Your mind is always trying to knock you off track and it's trying to ring the alarm bells of like 'hey think about this' or 'think about that' or 'this is urgent' and it's quieting the mind and really trying to isolate those things and it's trying to see outside all the norms that become the boundary conditions for your thoughts I think Kernel has that potential. We've built technology ahead of its time and Blueprint also has that kind of potential of reimagining our relationship with aging and health and time and we really could be on the cusp of something dramatically different and better of an existence than what is today. Life is tough. I mean it's brutal being human. And I just can't help but imagine and hope that there's got to be a better way to do this than what's going on now and it's not a baseless thought we have this infrastructure of technology and institutions and the emergence of all these things together that could make it possible if we could just aspire to it and I guess aspire to it means we'd have to dare to we have to dare to go after something that we can't actually identify and that's I think the most difficult thing is we create goals and aspirations in life based upon things we can model out. we can see other people do it and we then want to do it it's very hard to model out something brand new that's never been done or never been experienced or never been talked about or doesn't have words to it it's very hard to imagine those kinds of things and so it's a problem of articulating this aspiration it's a problem of getting people to also share in the aspiration it's more of this emergent feeling that things could be better in unknown ways and typically when people get into that kind of thought process and they imagine what the future could be like minds drift to dystopias you know in a fraction of a second and I'm not suggesting that utopia is the way to contemplate this there's a practical way to think about the possibilities but again it's like a gauntlet to try to navigate through the dystopia to also have practical mindedness that utopia is not necessarily maybe the thing to put your target on you know practically trying to navigate this thing and then through all the chaos of the day and the responsibilities that's the act. it's oftentimes you know challenging because the immediacy of human concerns is typically in the realm of seconds then you know in minutes and then in hours but then once you get to days like the level of interest just kind of like falls off a cliff in terms of what's immediately important to people and that's just how we're biologically configured. It's how society's configured. A lot of it is cultural norms but a lot of it is our biology yeah so these peaceful moments in the morning are precious. With Blueprint... that was the turning point in Blueprint. When I playfully fired evening Bryan and I decided that my conscious mind of that version of me was no longer authorized to make decisions and it's then expanded out and so for me personally I'm in this deep contemplation reflecting that my conscious mind was the destroyer of me and that only by arresting this have I been able to for the first time in my life... well for the first time since I was a kid, achieve peace and health and stability in my life ironically so there you go that's what's going on this morning and the day of the routine this is exactly what happens every day and it's why I go to bed at exactly the same time every night it's why my sleep is so structured because I want to feel wonderful I want my head to be clear I don't ever want to be sick I have to sacrifice a lot to do that social events and other things but it's worth it to me to try to achieve this clarity of thought and to work on these things I find it to be thrilling. all right. Let's wash the dishes get everything cleaned up and let's get to work
