---
title: "Transcript: I Tried Psilocybin for Science (Livestream Highlights)"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: I Tried Psilocybin for Science (Livestream Highlights)

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-CqN8EpX8U)

---

Chapter 1: Intro It's a really big dose. What's it like seeing your dad do a psychedelic? Yeah. My whole body vibrating. I just need to say it's hit [laughter] motion down. Wow. Just get feels so still. Your face is dancing. Pretty insane situation. Chapter 2: Why do this? Can you believe it that this is actually happening? People were wondering if we were trolling them and well, here we are. We are doing an experiment to see if psilocybin is potentially a longevity therapy. We will see. This is dose number two of three doses total. How you feeling about this? Like, are you ready? You know, honestly, I'm really nervous because last time I did this, my inhibitions were just washed away. And I was willing to think and say pretty much anything where normally you have these checks in your brain where you have a thought and it's like, should I say that thought? Is that an appropriate thought to say? And you can stop it. And when when you're deep within the mushrooms, you really don't have those inhibitions anymore. And so if I go off the rails, I'm probably just going to put a face mask on and lay down. Yeah. All right. I think we have Dr. Carl Seager. He's been helping us with this protocol. Is a longevity physician. This type of experiment is kind of what needs to start happening. There's some pretty preclinical trials that show hydilocybin can reverse biologic aging in human cells. Why are you doing these magic mushrooms? Like what is your purpose for for this trip? We're trying to say what therapies in the world could actually help us slow down our speed of aging and reverse aging damage. Now, we don't know if psilocybin will be that, but we're wanting to explore it. So, today we're measuring uh through this experiment 249 Chapter 3: Baseline testing biomarkers. It's the most quantified psychedelic experiment in history. Ryan Fields, we started kernel 7 years ago. What is Colonel? We took advances that were happening in LAR and consumer electronics and we made kind of a pulse oximter on steroids that's able to measure the oxygen in your brain. And so you can kind of map out what parts of the brain are active at what given time and then you can use that to start to look at things like brain health or signatures of drug interactions or mental states. Um, and yeah, we're going to do about 30 minutes of baseline measurements now from saliva testing to thermal body heat measurement to blood pressure and then also colonel. Any parting words? Good luck. I'll see you on the other [laughter] side. That's perfect. How are you feeling? Chapter 4: Taking the shrooms Great. I'm really excited. I mean, I'm ready for this. I I was feeling nervous. I don't feel it anymore. I'm going to go um prepare this. I'm going to take all of the lower one, the 4.67 g, and then I'm going to add an additional.56 g so that it equals 5.3 g. 467. We're at 4.9. We're trying to hit 5.23. Hey. Uhoh. 5 5.32. That's all right. Do you want to take a little bit out? I I think you should take a little bit out. As you guys can see, I'm a little bit more conscious of um I want Brian to Hey, good job. Cheers. Mushroom up. [laughter] Mushroom down. Lemony. [laughter] Lemony. All right, [gasps] we're going to put some more lemon in there to get all the little second bits. So, we're going to need a second mushroom time. Our second to get the remaining uh mushroom up. [laughter] All right. My god, it's so funny. Okay, we have a special guest. Oh, okay. Yes. Hey, Talage. Chapter 5: Talmage joins Oh, hello [laughter] you guys. This is my son, Talmage. How are you doing? I mean, what's it like seeing your dad do, you know, a psychedelic? Sometimes people ask me, it's like, "Oh, what what does your dad do?" And I I feel like I never really know what to say. Yeah. And I think I have something in my toolkit now of like, "Oh, he he like occasionally like trips balls on X [laughter] in front of hundreds of thousands of people." I don't I don't think a lot of people can say that. It's so fun to watch. Like it's it's all played to me. It's so fun. It's so funny. Talmage really is a phenomenal son. He is overjoyed when I experience something that I'm happy about. So, Tamage, I love you very much. I think you're really an amazing person. I feel lucky to be your dad and I'm so happy that uh we're doing life together. Could not have said it better. I love you, too. I have like no trepidation about seeing you do this. This is this is amazing. When's the next thing, you know, like top it off. Totally. I'm excited. I'm It's like I get to interact with the child. You maybe like the roles are slightly reversed and I'm in a bit of a parental role and you're in the in the childlike role. Yeah, that could be pos. Yeah, that's entirely possible. What do you feel? It's just like this uh this setting of consciousness just starts to change like you perceive things like the filter is different. Yeah, that's right. Um we have another guest on the call, Ashley. Ashley Vance. Chapter 6: Ashlee Vance joins When Brian [snorts] and I first started Blueprint and started publishing online and nobody was paying any attention and then Ashley comes along and writes this banger article that blew up. I did think it would blow up. I'm not sure I could have even imagined it would it would blow up kind of on the the scale. Chapter 7: It hits... Yeah, I just need to say it's hit [laughter] has been addressed. [laughter] I mean, it's like um so many thoughts and the the thoughts that I have make their way to the front much faster. Yeah. There's very few checks right now in place of like that's not a good idea to say. Mhm. Mhm. [laughter] There we go. That's Oh, man. I love that laugh. You had that. So, you peak in another hour and a half. Wow. [laughter] Yeah. Okay. My body feels so nimble and supple and loose. Whoa. Now that the whole the whole room is now pulsating. Really? Mhm. What are you seeing? [laughter] Everything's Everything's alive. [gasps] I love it. Dad, are these are the plants speaking to you? [laughter] Oh, that's so nice. They're close by. They need to be watered. The soil looks a little dry. Well, actually, no. No. If you if you stick your finger in there, they've been watered recently. This is nice. Okay. So, they're taken care of, I think. So, when I initiate a conversation with you, I have to like preload all these models of like um load human model of interacting with someone else. Um you know, I can feel the brain structure itself in anticipation for conversation. Whereas um before it just runs on autopilot, but now you see this the modeling the structure of the mind happen in real time. Can I show you something? Yes. We've got some fun. Oh, that is so fun. Man, how satisfying is that? I mean, that's cool. Yeah, this is a thing where uh yeah, just being mesmerized by how the metal feels. [music] Yeah. Everything now I see colors and everything. Yeah. My whole body vibrating. Wow. Just get feels so still. Yeah. You don't want to speak because speak detracts from the beauty. It's like this lower dimensional expression and sensory experience is so much more rich. Oh, this is strong. The visuals are so cool. Yeah, your face is dancing. I mean, this is um it's a really big dose. Mhm. The first dose was 25. Uh this is 28, but it definitely is like knocking me out. [laughter] It pulls you deep into the experience. You want to hang out deep in the experience. I can feel a strain. It just asks for a silence. Mhm. Above all. Mhm. Yeah. It's like demanding you to go inward. Yeah. I think this is a good time. Why don't you lay down for a little bit and just enjoy it and then we'll come and check in with you in a little bit. What do you think about that? Yeah. All right, next part of our journey begins the I guess we're kind of like the educational portion of the show possibly. I'm not sure. I guess [clears throat] Brian can't hear us so so can kind of speak freely without worrying about kind of what what's going on with him. Hamilton for this type of dose. Are there any normal stages time stages of progression in pharmarmacology? You have these measures T-max and CAX. This is like the time to the highest concentration of psilocin and blood plasma. And T-max is like 1.5 to 2 hours after oral ingestion of psilocybin. So he's nearing T-max would be the stage. I had a family member addicted to heroin and I learned Chapter 8: What is Psilocybin therapy? about Ibagane, which is a really potent psychedelic, on a Tim Ferrris podcast, um, and was deeply intrigued because it seemed like maybe this was the the only tool that might help people get rid of their opiate addiction. And so I hosted a dinner um with a group of Navy Seals because we learned from these Navy Seals they'd go to Mexico for one treatment and come back kind of cured of their um all of their ailments whether it was PTSD, depression, addiction, traumatic brain injury. Gul Dolan um who's a researcher at Berkeley uh who has a theory that these these tools work by opening critical periods um is testing this hypothesis by treating people who are stroke victims um with psilocybin and seeing if um they can regain motor control and I love that um because I think it moves this conversation out of the subjective psychiatric domain into like did they get back motor control or not and I think that will be really cool. Currently in the United States on the federal level, pretty much every major psychedelic drug is a schedule one controlled substance, meaning that they occupy the most restrictive schedule that definitionally states that they have no medical value. The hope is that through medical research that we can start to chip away at that a little bit and on a federal level some of these compounds the main ones being MDMA and psilocybin at the moment in the United States can be reclassified in such a way that they can be prescribed by physicians. I think it's fine and good to show people what the experience is like to demystify it to some extent to show that it can be beneficial. I think if you know Brian in real life, you know like what a generous, wonderful human he is. Um, so I am like deeply appreciative of the people like Brian who are like busting open the Overton window on what's acceptable to talk about to research um to film. So, I what I'm hopeful about um this kind of experiment we're all participating in today um is that it'll shift the conversation on psychedelics from tricky psychological disorders to um can this tool help healthy people live healthier, more productive and meaningful lives. And I think um that's really exciting. Chapter 9: Psilocybin for longevity What exactly is happening? That's all we are we on the right Zoom. I [laughter] I don't think I'm gonna have a good answer for you on that, man. Brian's tripping out. I think there's a lot of discovery happening every week right now in factors and um molecules that can change gene expression profiles that actually cause cellular rejuvenation which fundamentally and functionally is the root of all disease is this um epigenetic aging or epigenetic dysfunction. Um, so as time goes on, the epiggenome shifts around. Then there have been studies, which Brian and I have talked about, that have shown that some of these compounds in these psychedelic substances actually change the gene expression profile and as a result can have rejuvenating effects. We're in the beginning of an incredible moment where uh, you know, we are able to regenerate parts of our body uh, rather than take that traditional uh, approach that we've kind of been conditioned to think about. And so the magic cure that we're looking for for aging is the molecules that we can apply to any cell in our body that would cause that cell to go back to being young again to putting all of those molecules in the right place on the genome because the DNA doesn't get that damaged. It's actually the epigenome. And there have been a series of papers where they've identified compounds that you can find in these uh mushrooms that Brian's taken today that may actually have this effect that reset the epigenome and make the tissue youthful again. And so this may be a natural molecule that we've identified. That is an incredible part of this. And I think the other part that's incredible is the spiritual religious part. You know, I think that my my interest and Chapter 10: Spirituality + plant medicine what I was going to ask Brian, but I don't think I'm going to be able to based on what's happening. that idea that there's a connection between this religious spiritual, you know, decades of meditation practice, religious practice, spiritual practice, and the connection back into where we're talking about science. And we're still trying to find those bridges. And where are those bridges? And I think that uh I think that's what Brian is probably trying to do. I'm not going to put words in his mouth, but I think he's trying to find the link. He's not doing this, I think, for uh recreational purposes. I would say I really appreciate that Brian is a oneman FDA. He's like, screw it. I'll just do everything to myself and I'll legitimize it. I'll popularize it. I'll experiment with it. You know, God bless him. I hope he survives for a long time and then give us the cheat codes. That's really what we want. There should be a thousand Brians. There should be 10,000 Brians. In terms of mushrooms in particular, uh these so-called plant medicines have been around with humans for as long as humans have. They're a core part of human civilization. A lot of the ancient cultures have some history of psychedelics whether it's uh there was something in Greek mythology. Uh I forget what it was the cult of Pythagoras did it. There was something in Indian mythology with soma. Um mushrooms obviously LSD in the '60s with the hippies etc. Um so I think mushrooms are fascinating. Uh [clears throat] there's they put people into highly natural psychosspiritual states. Um, yes, you can get there through meditation, but in this modern life, who's got time for that, right? So, these kind of like a cheat code. Uh, and I think they're they're they're interesting for people to try. They seem relatively harmless. Um, especially in small quantities. And yeah, Brian's taking a heroic dose, but I think it's still not going to poison him or anything. And so, these are among the oldest living things on Earth. And humans are relatively new. So, I'm not surprised that like if you eat their sprouting bodies, aka the extruded mushroom, that you have some kind of a communion with nature because maybe this is the way of some part of nature communicating with us. Obviously, very fanciful. Chapter 11: Grimes’ DJ Set [music] Chapter 12: Peaking #1 I just told Brian that we have to do measurements. [laughter] It's now time for peak measurements. I'm sorry. I'm [laughter] sorry. You signed up for this. [laughter] All right, guys. We now have Dr. Sega back. [laughter] Hi, Carl. Hey, how are you? You guys look like you're having a great time. [laughter] I'm so happy for you, Brian. What's going on? I know there's a lot going on. Hey, Carl. [laughter] Hey, buddy. How are you? Okay. You look pretty awesome. Thanks. Yeah, pretty insane situation. Yeah. Look, we've got another guest. Hey, Ryan. [laughter] Hey, Brian. Family's back together. [laughter] Yeah. Might be able to just lean on your side and try to [laughter] That's an appropriate thing to say. [laughter] This is uh this is what I thought was going to be the most challenging of all this, honestly. right here collecting your spit at peak. How you doing? Wait, don't smell the spit. No, don't [laughter] drop the spit. Whatever you do. How you doing with that? Good. I mean, [laughter] that's liquid gold right now. It's got like I got to chew or something like [laughter] I think they're there. They're just We can't see them. Oh, yeah. Guys, try and um We're here. [laughter] How you doing? We're here. [snorts] We're just trying not to distract you. Yeah. Here. You [laughter] have to burn us. This is so funny. Yeah. This is what happened last time. And we take so long to do the others. Keep going. [snorts] You can do it, Brian. I believe in you. Where's Grimes? [laughter] [snorts] This is where you need a DJ set. Something to really encourage. Bring the whole family back in. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I think that's I think you need more. A Yeah. Wait. Wait. Don't spill it. I really No. No. [laughter] I have a motor control. I So sick. I definitely aware of like the How much? Yeah. I'm not going to spill it. Okay. Chapter 13: Testing reaction time Oh no. [laughter] Okay. Next we're going to do reaction time. Let's do this. [laughter] Oh, that was so bad. That was so long. 33. You got this. Thanks, Carl. Ryan, do you have any words for me? Focus. Thanks, Ryan. You guys, [laughter] [snorts] Ryan, I felt Ryan, I feel like that was like a You wanted me to get a bad score. [laughter] That really got to me. It was a point four. Yeah, that was my worst score. That was my worst score. Hey guys, come back. Yeah. Chapter 14: Peaking #2 [laughter] [laughter] It's cuz cuz he can't see you. He thinks that you're not there. Sorry. Okay, [laughter] Chapter 15: Family time I'm going go on X real quick to check the live stream. There's damage. We can hear you. Hey, Dad. You seem very giddy. Yeah, I'm having a good time. He probably just peaked. Really? Yeah. How much I have outsourced the whole situation. I'm just pure experience. How's that? It's the best. It's the best. [laughter] And having you guys here, it's like this is like peak life. Dad, I love you so much. Thank you, son. I love you to death. You know that. I love seeing you so happy. I love seeing you so relieved of stuff. You know what I mean? There you are just floating along. How did you feel about connectivity? I was telling Tomage that's been a lot on my mind uh from last time is you seem to really be overcome by all connections by the connectivity of everything, people, places, things. Yeah. Yeah, I guess like it just overjoys me that you guys are here with me. Like it just tell me I love you so much. Tell me I love you so much. I love you. Go go go. I just I found it so funny. He um it felt like maybe this is like my misread, but he asked he asked you a question and like you just answered a completely different way. I just love [laughter] being here with you guys. It wasn't like it was like you just like he asked the question and you were like oh it's like when like a parent's talking to a little kid and the little kid's like completely somewhere else. [laughter] That was my experience of it. Oh even even you right now your body language and like every like you're it feels like you're a child right now like you have like this this glow this smile this like um you just got out you came out the womb type of situation. I love you. I love you so much. It brings me so much [laughter] joy. Yeah. Like so parents like this is like it's worth it. [laughter] Like kids suck on so many levels. Like they they're like so painful on so many levels. Like they ruin your life on like every possible layer. And also they're like the most majestic creations in our reach. and tell me to see your face. Like, oh my god, I'm just I'm so happy. Dad, I love you so much. Like, we've done the hard work in our relationship. Um, I'm just I have deep love for you and I I see you as a person. I see you as a human. No judgment, no filters. I see you. I see your majestic being as a as a person. Well, I love you. You know that. It's a it's incredible to be in your life. Everybody around you will tell that you are you're the light that keeps on giving to all of us. And we even like you more on shrooms. [laughter] Oh man. It looks very It looks very good on him. Tomage, that's just exactly the bundle of whatever he was as a boy, you know, just here there. And you could just see it shine on his face. It's nice. This uh I love it. You feel like you're in timeout or [laughter] Yes. Okay. Head forward. I can do Okay, I can do this. You got it. Uh wait, let's see. Let me get situation awareness. [music] All right. All right. We appreciate you all. Talage, we love you. I want to say to the public, we love you too, but I feel like, you know, [music] it's like you could say you could say you could say I don't know you, but I actually do feel like I mean, like Brian said, it feels like we went into this thinking we're all connected and that we want you guys to have a really good experience. I'm I'm high. All right. Bye, you guys. Bye, guys. Thanks for hanging out with us today. Bye.
